# project-wind-farm
Wind Power Plant Project - The project consists of the acquisition and availability of streaming data from wind turbine sensors generated by a python producer in an AWS environment (AWS S3, AWS Kinesis, AWS Glue and AWS Athena)

This project aims to simulate real-time data acquisition (streaming) from sensors installed in a wind turbine, followed by the storage and analysis of this data in the AWS environment, as explained below:

1. **Creation of Information Producers:**
   - Development of information producers emulating data acquisition sensors, including "Power Factor" (ranging from 0.7 to 1), "Battery Temperature" (ranging from 20 to 25 degrees Celsius), and Hydraulic Pressure (ranging from 70 to 80 BAR).

2. **Configuration of AWS Kinesis Environment:**
   - Establishment of the AWS Kinesis environment to receive data generated by the Kinesis Data Stream.
   - Routing of this data to the bucket created on AWS S3 through Kinesis Data Firehouse.

3. **Use of AWS Glue for Data Consolidation:**
   - Use of AWS Glue Catalog to create a database.
   - Implementation of Glue Crawler to generate a table from the data stored on AWS S3.
   - Execution of Glue Job to identify acquired data and consolidate information into a datalake on AWS S3.
   - Provision of consolidated data for querying in AWS Athena through AWS Glue (creation of a datalake of consolidated data).

4. **Analysis with AWS Athena:**
   - Use of AWS Athena for analysis of consolidated data.
   - Certification of the creation of the datalake of consolidated data in AWS Glue before conducting queries and interpreting the data.
